In the previous video, we have done configuring
svi on the multi layer switch.
So now connection between pc in the different
vlan is OK.
Next in this video, we are going to configure
dhcp server on the multi layer switch.
So we don’t need to configure an ip address
manually one by one in all pc.
Let’s just start, open the multi layer switch,
and then go to global configuration mode.
Actually the configuration will be the same
as we configure dhcp server in the router.
So first we need to create a pool, this is
for vlan 1, so the pool name let’s say vlan1.
Next let’s define the network, this is pool
for vlan 1, so the network is 192.168.1.0
255.255.255.0.
The default router is the ip address of multi
layer switch for vlan1, which is 192.168.1.1.
for dns server, we can use google dns server,
which is 8.8.8.8.
Okay we have done for vlan 1, let’s continue
for vlan 10.
Network 192.168.10.0 255.255.255.0, default-router
192.168.10.1, and then dns-server 8.8.8.8
Next for vlan 20, ip dhcp pool vlan 20, network
192.168.20.0 255.255.255.0,
default-router 192.168.20.1, and dns-server 8.8.8.8
Last, let’s configure for vlan 30.
Ip dhcp pool vlan30, network 192.168.30.0
255.255.255.0, default-router 192.168.30.1,
and dns-server 8.8.8.8
Okay now we have done configuring dhcp server
for all vlan.
Next let’s try configure dhcp client on
the pc.
Let’s start frorm room 3.
Okay here we can see dhcp request successful,
let’s just configure dhcp clien on all pc.
I will speed up the video until the configuration
on all pc is done.
Okay now all pc get an ip address automatically
from the dhcp server.
Let’s test the connection.
Here from vlan 10 room 1, to the vlan 30 room 2.
The first packet is failed, let’s test again,
okay this is success.
Next from vlan 1 room 1 to the vlan 20 room
2.
The first packet is failed, let’s test again,
okay this is success.
Last, let’s try from vlan 20 room 1 to the
vlan 10 room 3.
The first packet is failed, let’s test again,
and now this is success.
Okay so now we have done configuring dhcp
server in the multi layer switch.
I think enough for this video
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next video